although it's true that any particular
conflict or debate may be meaningless
it's just as true to say that any
particular call for unity or cooperation
between two conflicting sides may also
be meaningless misguided pointless
hopeless why do we fight why are there
so many conflicts of vegans against
other vegans I approach this in a very
different way for most of the people on
YouTube and I think that many people
have lost sight of the fundamentals of
the situation where now be in you'll
find reflections those fundamentals
right up front near the top of my
abandoned blog myblog called vegan mind
tricks there's an entry there that's
titled something like veganism fractious
and fragmentary I view this as a
movement with tremendous internal
diversity with very deep rifts within
itself and with deep and meaningful
disagreements at the core about
questions such as what does the word
veganism mean we get into questions of
effect of activism but what any of us
are actually going to do to try to bring
the principles of veganism into effect
in this world then of course it gets
even more fractures of fragmentary but I
do not start from a misconception that
many of you have out there that the
purpose of us lending our voices to the
airwaves is for all of us to just get
along is it's quite false to start off
with the assumption that the natural
situation for vegans as human beings is
to be in solidarity unison and unity and
that the disagreements between us have
merely come about by some
misunderstanding by some inclement
happenstance
not the case at all the disagreements
between us may in many cases be based on
a real understanding not
misunderstanding not a misunderstanding
at all I think there are basically two
categories for why we fight for why we
have these internal conflicts one is
debate come back to number one in a
minute I think people lose sight of why
debate matters why it's really a
positive and vital thing and number two
is ambition the ambition to do something
positive and I'm not going to create a
third category I don't think there is a
valid third category but right now I
think what many people would see a third
category is so-called drama drama for
the sake of drama scandal for the sake
of scandal I'll come back to all three
of these things first off why do I say
the ambition to do something positive
wouldn't it be better if i said
something like activism well activism
has much more narrow connotations in
most people's minds when i say do
something positive it may be something
as simple as writing a children's book
writing and illustrating a children's
book about veganism and it may be
something as specific to your town to
your location as challenging the local
school board on the curriculum that gets
caught taught in schools a friend of
mine who i met here on youtube i'll
leave anonymous for this video a friend
of mine mentioned to me her horror what
she discovered that her kids in school
were being delivered propaganda written
by the egg industry I've read about
other instances in Australia of the
dairy industry really having pro
industry propaganda being delivered to
schools now I find that very deeply
disturbing for many reasons partly
because I'm a vegan but partly just
because I believe in democracy
transparent today
accountability I believe in you no
question of you know public education
really serving public goals and I'm
deeply disturbed by the role that you
know Catholic propaganda can play in
schools if you allow the Catholic Church
to decide what's taught in schools I
think that's a tremendous ethical
quandary public conflict of interest
worth having and likewise for those same
reasons we're fundamentally we have to
question democratically who decides
what's taught to children who determines
the message it's delivered in the
classroom and it should not be something
bought and sold to the highest bidder I
neither want the egg industry to do that
nor the dairy industry nor any other
industry I don't think that any private
interest should be able to determine
that neither a church nor an industry
but with that aside of course teaching
children that eggs are healthy and
natural and normal and necessary for
them to eat course is a vegan that's
that's a message that may be especially
disturbing to me but if it's the egg
industry why not the beer industry or
anyone else for that matter in any case
taking on a challenge like that taking
on the local school board taking on
whichever body decide little curriculum
that even that may not match the notion
you have of activism in your mind and of
course writing a story book may not
either but the ambition to do something
positive you know whether it's in the
arts or in politics or any other form of
organizing human beings that kind of
ambition it alien ates people and it
separates people normally into small
groups that really can cooperate in
pursuit of that ambition as a common
perception that artists are very
difficult people to get along with and I
think that perception is mostly shaped
by this issue of ambition and people who
are not artists really failing to
understand what the ambition is how it
operates how it separates people and
also unites people into small groups
that really cooperate in pursuit of that
goal if you don't share my ambition if
I'm organizing a concert concert talking
about the arts here but in
some ways the type of human cooperation
involve closely resembles politics but
I'm organizing a concert I'm looking
around I'm working with people I'm
looking at everybody on that project and
it's like look do you share my vision
for this project or not if not get out I
can't have you here I can't have you at
this meeting I can't have you as part of
this project only the people who share
and support that ambition may be very
short-term maybe six months we all have
to work together really hard in a
focused way I need a group of people who
share this vision for this concert who
share this ambition and that's it either
you're in or you're out doesn't mean
you're my enemy not the same as being a
political enemy but either you share
that ambition you don't back what I was
involved with organizing Buddhist
studies or organizing Buddhism I can
remember having meetings with people who
other people were involved in that and
we were organizing some things that were
like you know public lectures academic
lectures related to Buddhist philosophy
or POTUS history or what have you and
some of the other things were even
closer to real politics where we were
lobbying to influence it's not even
worth describing this video we were
lobbying for lobbying the influence
decisions leave it at that um but you
know have a meeting some of the people
traveled an hour to attend that meeting
Toronto is a big spread out city some
people came a long way to attend that
meeting to make those decisions to
discuss those factors you know if
there's one person at the meeting who
doesn't share your ambitions for what
that groups trying to accomplish was
trying to do it totally disrupts the
meeting and they've just got to get out
and it's not this is why I have this in
a separate category category one was
debate but when you're working in
pursuit of that kind of ambition to do
something positive when you're getting
organized it's not a debating club
anymore remember one meeting like that
and there was a young woman who was
invited by one of the other organizers
on the poor people who really worked and
you know she wasn't even Buddhist she
was Chinese she was not a member of the
Buddhist religion anyway she'd no
interest as she kept disrupting the
meeting like during the meeting some of
the
sound okay so we're going to have this
lecture we're going to bring in the
speaker to the University we're going to
set this up and you know there would be
donations Buddhism is religion Orthodox
ancient Buddhism it's all built on
people giving donations which is partly
morally significant because one of the
alternatives detected to donations is
taxation in Christianity you know you
have tithing but anyway so this is not
tithing fuels not taxing people's not
charging an admission fee but it's
allowing donations to be voluntary and
you know this young woman was disrupting
the meeting saying she was morally
opposed to taking donations and we're
since then look I'm sorry I don't know
how much you study Buddhism but it's
actually one of the founding principles
of the religion is that donations are a
good thing and we're not going to debate
it now we can't stop this meeting we
can't disrupt what we're doing and a you
know we really have limited time and
energy and we're all focused on this
vision whether it's a creative vision or
a political vision you know you know
ultimately either you're part of this
meeting where you got to get out but
like you know I remember she revealed
some point that she wasn't even a Buddha
so she shouldn't have been in that
meeting at all what was ridiculous I
don't know why she wasn't going to be
there debate is one thing what you do as
a group in pursuit of a shared ambition
is really another and that meeting was
not a debating Club we were not there to
debate Buddhist philosophy or Buddhist
economics or the history of Buddhism or
the significance of donations as opposed
to charging admission Thor those are
interesting debates that have they
really are but again i'm not using the
word activism because it's a little bit
more narrow but you have to recognize
that you have to recognize what it is
for a group of people to really work to
work hard to sacrifice their time and
their money but it's that time is the
most precious part of all in pursuit of
an ambition and I mean to stereotype
slightly I do especially often see
people a part of the fruit movement the
fruitarian movement
food movement and I think they really do
not understand that issue of ambition
that i'm not on youtube just to be happy
even though i am here to make friends i
am here to make colleagues and
connections and find people i can
cooperate with in pursuit of any number
of ambitions this is not a mutual
appreciation club and this is not just a
venue for me to come on and show you how
much I'm enjoying my life or to
encourage you to enjoy your life what
that's like again whether it's in the
arts or maybe in theory in the sciences
I don't know I don't know missionaries
with pure sciences or in politics to say
look we have a group of people whether
it's five people or 50 people whether
it's organizing a concert or a lecture
or an exhibition for the Arts or a
theater program or you know it's not an
easy Democratic to recognize that when
you're putting together a crew of people
in pursuit of an ambition what you're
doing is by very its very definition its
exclusive because you're just looking
for the group of people who share that
ambition and if we're going to work hard
to make it happen and you can refer back
actually there were some reflections on
that I'm a conversation with American
unicorn my long podcast with her but she
was trying to get some vegan events
going some vegan things going and her
struggle to find even a few other people
who shared that vision and shared those
ambitions okay now debate point one of
my two pointless I think the people
forget about the real meaning of the
word debate and this category of drama
has distracted us from it even further
in debate motives matter it really does
matter if I'm just trying to be clever
for the sake of being clever or if I'm
just trying to get attention of the
circuit attention or if the debate has
real outcomes has real consequences for
me if it's about something I really care
about I realize that may seem like an
overly emotional criterion to bring to
the question of debate but yes the
question of why are we having this
debate what do I have invested in it
that really does matter there are many
people I think they've never seen the
videos there are many people who have
the false assumption that my
disagreement with a natural vegan was
just about personality or getting
attention any views know if you watch
any of the videos dealing with the
domestication of animals any of the
videos about dogs and cats etc it should
be very clear to you I really care about
that issue to me that's really worth
debating and the justification for why I
had the debate at all is exactly my
sincerity engaging with the issue and
I'm totally satisfied with the fact that
although it took a great deal of time
and effort at length when it was all
done when all those videos were made I
did get to see the transformation of the
world view of quite a few people who
watched those videos and who wrote in to
me saying they just never thought about
it before they never thought about it
from my perspective before and they now
realize wow this is actually a
tremendously important issue at the
heart of veganism and has implications
for everything it has implications for
how we live our lives how we view the
world how we're getting organized as
activists and for me that's a
tremendously positive thing that had
that debate even though first I was
debating with really didn't cooperate so
it was almost totally a monologue but
you know it's a debate where I know very
well the other side's view because of
course the other side is the majority
the vast majority of vegans uncritically
support pet owner
chip uncritically make excuses for
castrating dogs and even uncritically
make excuses for killing a cow in order
to feed it to a cat in the form of cat
food I'm aware it's the majority
position but for me speaking as minority
that debate is justified not by personal
vendetta not by seeking drama it's
justified by my motives by my sincerity
the fact that I really do care about
those issues whether or not I actually
have anything intelligent to say you can
decide for yourself but my motivations
in that that you can disagree with me
but my motivations in that should be
clear so we have to stop thinking of
debate as something that detracts from
veganism the reality is that this is one
of the most fractious and fragmentary
internally divided movements the world
because we do not even agree on what
veganism is on why it matters on why we
became vegan let alone how we propose to
propound this to the rest of the world
as I've said so many times any type if
you ever want to humble yourself with
the progress of the vegan movement think
about what percentage of the world's
population we've managed to convince to
stop wearing leather shoes incredibly
small percentage of people will refuse
to wear leather shoes how do you want to
get up that hill it's a matter of real
debate I think anyone who has sincere
motives should get involved in exactly
that way now with that haven't been said
once you move past that debating phase
which we do a lot of here on YouTube
which is wonderful and positive to
actually trying to make something
positive happen like you actually want
to put together a poster campaign and
advertising campaign addressing leather
shoes then the debates are over just for
that group maybe five people maybe 50
people so okay we're going to get
organized we're going to put in some
time and effort and a little bit of
money ultimately go to print the posters
maybe everyone throws
in ten dollars however much it cost
maybe you're going to work with a
professional illustrator and that's
going to cause some more money okay
you're going to do an advertising
campaign related leather shoes now we're
working in pursuit of an ambition to do
something positive you can call it
activism doesn't matter as soon as we're
guided by that ambition the debates are
over and simply you got to look at the
people sitting at that table and say
either you're in or you're out because
that's not the table where you have
those debates terms of the third
category drama people are forgetting the
meaning of the word scandal they're
forgetting what a real scandal is seeing
people trying to make a scandal out of
the fact that one vegan sent another
vegan a text message saying that she's
cute you know saying she's attractive
it's not a scandal all right stop trying
to make scandals out of totally normal
human relations I'm interested in seeing
these connections between people this
network these relations between
colleagues and Friends expand and deepen
and blossom over the next five years
because I want to see something really
positive happened something really
positive come out of it can be myriad
foundations it may be myriad micro
projects publishing books taking a case
to the local Board of Education putting
up posters about leather shoes it may be
or you know it may be one big foundation
more like pettah or what have you it may
be some big project some small ones it's
not for me to say
but you know human beings want to be
loved and for every one relationship
that results in a marriage or even just
a loving boyfriend girlfriend
relationship people are going to have
hundreds and hundreds short interactions
that may start with one person sending
another text message saying hey you're
cute do you want to meet for coffee and
it actually is really destructive and
negative to see that kind of behavior
vilified and turned into a scandal and
it's going to stop people from making
friends it's going to stop you before
having real romance than it's going to
stop people from attempting to have
romances that just turn out to be
nothing I don't know what person ninety
percent ninety-five percent of
flirtations like that or people meeting
for coffee be four coffee decide you're
not interested in show that romantically
maybe become friends maybe become
colleagues maybe you continue
cooperating the vegan movement maybe
nothing comes from it for those of you
who are taking a shot of vodka every
time I mention Laos or Cambodia get your
bottles ready now when i was living in
laos there was a real scandal there was
a real scandal reportedly involving two
israeli guys who in a hotel room peed a
prostitute to spend time with them and
when they left the hotel room this
prostitute was tied to the bed I
believed her you know her ankles and her
wrists were tied to the bed and they had
defecated on her in plain English they
had left a pile of poo on her and then
they just left the hotel room with her
stranded there on the bed until the
cleaning staff you know until the hotel
staff came and opened the door and
discovered this woman tied to the bed
now this was a real scandal and it
shocked the whole city
and there was a big reaction to it comes
to in just a moment and the sense of
horror and moral outrage was made much
worse by the fact that this woman could
not scream for help she was a deaf mute
as we would say and at that time she was
very well known I didn't frequent any of
the bars she would prove I didn't know
anything about her but when the scandal
broke many people said oh yes they knew
exactly who she was because she was
somewhat famous for being death but for
being one of these very hardworking deaf
people who learned how to read lips and
who could really communicate to an
amazing extent despite being born deaf
and she was a prostitute and so many
people in the town knew her apparently
because of the way she would socialize
at the different bars and nightclubs I
never went to any of those places so I
didn't know I learned about this as a as
a story after the fact now that was a
real scandal and that really shocked
people and I first heard about it
because I noticed a whole bunch of hotel
owners put up signs in their hotels
saying no Israelis loud so they they
respond to this by banning all Israelis
because they had the idea the
prejudicial idea but based in the
shocking experience that there were all
these Israeli guys who had just finished
their military service and who were on
vacation and who were carrying on in
this in this odious manner I could say
more ok that's a scandal if something
like that happened in the vegan
community it would be a real scandal and
we should talk about it absolutely but I
was starting to a friend of mine who is
a vegan on YouTube and who was
interested in making a positive into the
wrong and he was basically saying that
he was now afraid to or he he was saying
he was deciding not to
flirt with or hit on or strike up
conversation with or approach you know
women within veganism that he was never
going to communicate by text message and
swag and initiating relationships
because of the current climate of fear
and hostility impacts over trivialities
over nothing over nonsense over one
person telling another person they're
cute and saying they wanted me for
coffee and he was very surprised my
response as I said no it's actually
really important for you me usually we
know you've gotta love people you've
still got to have that love in your
heart you still got to initiate
relationships shallow relationships
friendships love whatever the whole
range because you don't know when you
start what you don't know what it's
going to be you know it's going to time
I said no you should not be ashamed of
this you should not be afraid of this
you should be you know initiating
relationships with whatever the opposite
sex the same sex whatever you're into um
no shade you know just whatever you're
into um this is a chilling effect on the
whole movement that's really negative
really regrettable and really stunts our
growth as people as individuals and will
stunt the growth of the network as a
whole again I think I think you know
people want to be loved I think people
want to be known I think people want to
have meaningful relationships some
people want to have meaningless
relationships also that's okay but the
idea that you would silence yourself
censor yourself in that most personal
and intimate of aspects of your life
that you wouldn't ask someone out for
coffee that's really very scary to me
that's very different from censoring
yourself in writing a newspaper article
are you making a public declaration of
that kind of making a speech on the
radio or something that's a form of
censorship that goes right into the
bedrooms of the nation if you don't mind
my using a hackneyed phrase
and I told this guy in this conversation
told me anecdote I just thought I said
look you've forgotten the meaning of the
word scandal and I told him with a
scandal in Laos with a deaf woman who
was you know humiliated and victimizes
ways look that's a scandal that if I
find out that you have been asking vegan
women to go out to coffee with you to go
on a date with you or something it's not
a scandal and I'm never going to shame
you for that I'm never going to make you
feel ashamed for that never going to
insult you for that or denigrate you for
that and if you go for coffee with them
and the relationship works out that's
great and how if you doesn't work out
it's fine too it's not a scandal if I
find out you went out with this
particular woman and you went to a hotel
and you left her handcuffed to the bed
with a pile of poo to be discovered by
the cleaning staff that is a scandal and
then I would be furious with you and
then I would have questions for you and
I would say why the hell did you do this
you know to whatever to this other
activists I know this other person I
know whatever it is okay my point is not
that nothing is scandalous some things
are scandalous and those are the things
that you would address with real concern
even if you were just dealing with a
personal friend and that of course you
would deal with real concern if you were
dealing with someone in position of real
political power of real political
leadership check your head a little bit
right now in veganism does anyone have
real political power is anyone in a
position of real political leadership
the answer may be no it may be nobody is
in that position or maybe one or two
people who never get involved with the
digital vegan demi-monde here on youtube
at all
there are little bits and pieces of
political power scattered around but
compared even to the type of political
power that exists within tera vaada
Buddhism nothing's at that scale yet but
still sadly you see the type of
disgraceful behavior that's inspired by
just money and fame without power even
coming into the equation yet but yes it
is coming it is there in the future for
us to worry about there are questions of
accountability and abusive power doesn't
hurt thinking about them now so look
guys I that's about it that's all I had
to say in this video I am on YouTube to
make friends and friendship as I've said
before is unequal I have real ambitions
and I'm honest and open about those
ambitions and if you were to look at who
do I interview who I talked to on this
channel the main question is do these
people share some of those ambitions
with me or do they have the potential to
work towards those ambitions with me and
in some cases I'm delighted when I find
that the answer is yes I think someone
like vegan gains really does have the
potential to make a very positive impact
very positive ends in the world in
Canada is a Canadian citizen many of you
might not have guessed that you can
listen to the podcast I did with them
what have you many of you I think
assumed that the light twins didn't have
a political bone in their body the
interview that's like two ends did with
me for many many people those the first
time they heard the light twins talk
about politics talk about their
political envisions and again that's in
Canada so you know they have that
potential and they have that desire
so sometimes you know people surprise
you sometimes even if you don't initiate
that contact with that person that
colleague for that reason you find out
afterwards either that there are people
who are so dissatisfied with the status
quo that they want to change the world
for that reason or that they have some
particular goal some particular project
some particular ambition in mind they
have a very general ambition of mine
when vegan gains said in my conversation
them that he wants to see fur become
illegal it was he furrow Balash she
wants to see factory farming disappear I
very rarely think in terms that broad
but of course you know I feeling you
know I feel I'd sympathize totally with
those ambitions but I tend to think much
more in that precise sense of how do I
stop the Board of Education from
including propaganda material provided
by the AG industry provided by the dairy
industry how do I build a foundation
where I can raise enough money to employ
a lawyer who can pursue that goal with
me so that I'm not giving depositions
alone when I approached the provincial
government because I want to deal with
education policy and a real question
democratic accountability and for how
those propaganda messages get into the
school board set Earth's I think in this
much more precise and focused way for
better and for worse you know certainly
there's room for visionaries this room
for people with that much broader view
of wanting to just see factory farming
stop going to see fur industry stop
going to see a vegan world or a vegan
majority or vegan 5% getting to 5%
vegans would be a huge accomplishment
for planet Earth debate is a legitimate
positive part of that process and in the
pursuit of those ambitions we do engage
in exclusive behavior exclusionary
behavior
say because we try to put together
groups of people who can really work in
in a close-knit circle just in pursuit
of that one ambition whether it's
publishing that one book putting on that
one post that one concert putting
together that poster campaign etc etc
etc so those are behaviors that some
people regard as negative but they're
really positive and on the other hand
this third category drama and scandal
mongering I think that is really
negative it's really / Nicias and it has
impacts for how we operate politically
and how we live our lives personally
that are far-reaching and insidious and
for those of you who perceive it as
positive or perceive it as just
entertainment I'm going to have to ask
you to just sympathize to empathize to
imagine how different the world would
look if you were sitting where I'm
sitting as someone who has very limited
ability to bring about social change on
planet earth but as someone who has
enormous ambition to bring about that
change as someone who was getting on the
telephone every day skype of course not
the real telephone but someone who's
getting on telephone every day and
talking to other vegans who share those
ambitions who want to make the world a
better place but who don't know how and
who don't feel confident that they can
do it we're trying to build up the
confidence and the capacity to take on
Parliament to take on City Hall and
instead what we're getting distracted
with is people stabbing each other in
the back over [ __ ]